---
title: v1.8.5 - A long wait
description: You thought this project was dead
authors: [knighthat]
tags: [release]
---

After such long wait, new update is here to address some rampant issue
Kreate is facing.

<!-- truncate -->

## Biggest change in this update

To address some playback issues, we've decided to integrate 
[Metrolist](https://github.com/mostafaalagamy/Metrolist)'s innertube 
as our core playback stream resolver.

This will greatly reduce failure rate when fetching song from the internet.

## Second biggest change

Kreate is now shipped for [muliple architecture](/blog/2025/12/13/cpu-specific-build).

:::tip
Don't worry, `Kreate-release.apk` is still being released.

This is the universal build
:::

If you know your phone's CPU architecture, you can download the 
matching version and install it on your phone.

## Fixes

```diff
- App randomly starts playing songs in the background
- Low resolution on some thumbnail
- App crashes when shuffle an empty playlist
- App crashes during queue export
- Download button doesn't work in media control
- Error when seek to uncached timestamp
- App crashes randomly in the background
```

### App crashes in the background

Several frustrating problems are also resolved in this update.
One of the them being background crash.

Previously, when you put app into the background, the music
would stop randomly and you would be greeted with a crash report.

## Other changes

A feature back from RiMusic that allows you to change song's or album's
thumbnail. This feature is still under development, more will come in the
future. 

Generally, this feature allows you to pick a file on your system,
or a url to the image.

Additionally, an other option is added next to the live wallpaper section.
This allows users to reset live wallpaper back to their **manufacturer's wallpaper**
when song stops.

:::warning[Manufacturer wallpaper]
You read it right, not your current wallpaper, but the wallpaper when
you first boot the phone.

This is due to a security feature of Android that prevents app from
accessing current wallpaper. Any attempt will result in error.
:::


