---
title: v1.8.3 is here
description: Lots of things going on in this build
authors: [knighthat]
tags: [release]
image: /blog/thumbnail-2025-11-01-1-8-3-is-here.webp
---

Another version with patches' hit the market. Grab one on [GitHub](https://github.com/knighthat/Kreate/releases/latest),
or your [preferable platform](https://github.com/knighthat/Kreate?tab=readme-ov-file#-installation).

<!-- truncate -->

---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';


First, let's take a look at the release note:

<Tabs className="tabs--block">
  <TabItem value="new" label="New" default>
    - Random sort category
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="fixes" label="Fixes">
    - Crash when song starts playing
    - Mismatch background color of text fields in lyrics search
    - Crash on startup when song is half-cached
    - Discord causes crash when internet goes out
    - "SKip on error" has no effect
    - RPC doesn't pickup local song's thumbnail
    - DiscordRPC doesn't reconnect on network recovery
    - DiscordRPC doesn't reconnect when setting is enabled
    - Crash when navigating to albums and artists
    - Crash when random artist/album is used
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="changes" label="Changes" default>
    - Green background when lyrics found
    - Hide cache/download icon on local songs
    - Player shows more messages when error occurs
    - Login is not available on Android 5
    - Apply duration limit to play next, enqueue, play actions
    - Apply queue limit to play next, enqueue, play actions
  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="removals" label="Removals" default>
    - Encryption library
  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

## New sort category - Random

This new category allows you to view your collection in completely random order.

:::tip
Tab the cross arrows to shuffle the list
:::

<div style={{ position: 'relative', width: '100%', height: 0, paddingBottom: '50%' }}>
  <iframe 
  allow="fullscreen" 
  allowfullscreen 
  src="https://streamable.com/e/v7uo2r?loop=0"
  style={{ border: 'none', width: '100%', height: '100%', position: 'absolute', left: 0, top: 0, overflow: 'hidden' }} />
</div>

## Removal of encryption library

As stated in our [Discord](https://kreate.knighthat.me/discord) server and in the article titled 
[YouTube and Discord logging is coming to Android 5](/blog/2025/10/25/youtube-and-discord-logging-is-coming-to-android-5), 
`androidx.security:security-crypto` is an out-dated library and doesn't
do much in term of security since internal filesystem of Kreate is inaccessible to the public.

## DiscordRPC fixes + changes

Last implementation of DiscordRPC has caused quite many troubles. One of them even crashes the
app when your internet connectivity goes out.

But fear not, this improved implementation takes that into consideration. 
Your connection to Discord will resume after connectivity is recovered.

Additionally, you can actively disconnect/reconnect to Discord at any moment just by switching
`Discord login` in **Settings** > **Account** menu.

## Gernalizing error messages

To prevent confusion to users, we've incorporated new messages that are both specific yet concise.

For example, in the past, if album page was failed to load, you would get a message similar to `Required value was null`.
In this new version, you'll get a localized message `Failed to load album`.

However, the real cause is recorded to runtime log.

:::tip
You can enable `Runtime log` in **Settings** > **Misc**
:::

## Song duration limit & queue limit

These are existing features, but was limited to `Quick picks` only.

From now on, they will take a part in filtering the queue

:::note
This doesn't affect the on going queue. Only the songs that are being added to the queue
:::

In short, when songs are getting added to the queue, they will go through a 
filtering system to remove songs that have duration longer
than repset value, or when the queue's reached preset value.

## Other fixes and changes

Even though other fixes and changes weren't mentioned in the separate sections, 
they still have certain impact on user experience.

---

Finally, we'd like to thank contributors who've dedicated their time and resources
to keep the project going. Your contributions are always noted

And thank you to users, who've given Kreate a try!