---
title: v2.1.2 - Another hoxfix?
description: 2 hotfixes in a day, woah
authors: [knighthat]
image: /img/blog/thumbnail-2026-03-14-2-1-2-hot-fix.webp
---

<!-- truncate -->

Since v2.0.0, Kreate has gone through multiple changes,
inlcuding some breaking changes, literally.

This is another hot fix in case you missed the first.
Let's take a look at what's changed since v2.0.0

```diff
+ Improve error handling, logging, and error messages
+ Reduce playback and download wait time

- Split isn't default cache location
- "failed to get song's info" prevents playback
- Download fail rate
- Crash when adding new song to queue with persistent enabled
```

## Improving several components

First of all, playback received significant improvement since v2.0.0.
You no longer have to wait for an extended period of time
for music to start playing.

Additionally, we made a few changes on how the app handles errors.
Instead of showing confusing messages, error messages will now
focus on showing you what to do in this case. Some errors could
be igored (would be nice if you report those tho), and some
will tell you to submit logs for further inspection.

## `Split` cache location

Previously, `Split` was the default cache location. However,
in recent change, the setting was changed without our
knowledge (most likely by an accident).

So, we urge you to check back to see if the option was changed too.
You can go to `Settings` > `Data` > `Cache location`.

:::danger
This changing location will result in loss of data, your songs
in this instance. Depends on what you choose, you'll either
lose cached songs or downloaded songs.
:::

:::tip
If you plan to commit, please delete your cache to prevent
Kreate from keep a hold on unused data.
:::

## Hotfixes

After the release, we received higher number of reports
about player wasn't able to play most songs. That's when
we released the first hotfix. 

However, another incident reported on the same day
caught our interest. `Persistent queue` would crash the
app if you try to play or add an unheard song to the queue.
Fortunately, it was an easy fix (or we thought so), another
hotfix was delivered later on that day.

