---
title: v2.2.0 release note
authors: [knighthat]
tags: [news, release]
image: /img/blog/2026-06-01-2-2-0-release-note.webp
---

What a week!! YouTube's latest update did a number on the app. But, new udpate is here,
your problem might be solved, but no guaranteed.

<!-- truncate -->

:::warning[Disclaimer]

YouTube is limiting unlogged in usage more than ever. Your experience 
will still be limited to some degree, or may not even work at all.

:::

## New skin: Bottom menu

Previously, song's menu is very limited in term of height. You could scroll up and down,
but the experience isn't that great.

With this new update, you can expand the menu to full screen by swiping up. Furthermore,
menus are nested correctly, that means, back button will be able to bring you to the previous
menu, or close it if you're at the root.

## New menu: Local playlist

In addition to the skin, we also added new menu for local playlists. You can access it by
tap & hold local playlist in `Library` tab.

This menu provides you simple actions like `play next`, `enqueue`, `delete`, etc.
so you don't have to open the playlist.

## Fixes

We also bring you some fixes to improve your experiece as a user.

### Random crashses

For a while, users have been dealing with random crashes while listening to their music.
Thanks to our users who reported the issue, we've been collecting and diagnosing and 
have been able to confirm the root cause, it's not been fixed.

:::warning[Disclaimer]

Not all problems and crashes are fixed, we're still working on it, but those are rare so you can rest easy.

:::

### Local songs are being written into cache disk

This is a more subtle bug, but it's there. A backend logic flaw causes cache storage 
to duplicate local songs during playback.

**Because cache storage is quite fragile, removing unwanted songs programmatically is
genereally a bad idea. Therefore, users are required to step in and remove them 
one-by-one by themselves. We apologize for the inconvenience it's caused.**

### Crash occurs when interact with media control

First reported in v2.1.6, certain interactions with the media control (notification)
and Android Auto cause the app to crash. But it's fixed now.

### Download button showed in queue for local songs

Similarly to [Local songs are being written into cache disk](#Local songs are being written into cache disk), 
local songs in queue are equiped with download button, which also duplicate the song if pressed.

## Changes

Media control uses previous app logo instead of up-to-date one.
