---
title: v2.0.0 - The new chapter
description: New features, new features, and... new features
authors: [knighthat]
image: /img/blog/thumbnail-2026-03-01-2.0.0-the-new-chapter.webp
---

<!-- truncate -->

## New icon set

Thanks to [@Nicouschulas](https://github.com/Nicouschulas), Kreate now has a new icon set.

## Breaking changes

> Litterally

Moving forward, Kreate will no longer support Android 5. Effectively, you'll not be able
to install Kreate on any device that's using Android older than 6.

You can read more about our decision in [Ending support for Android 5 and 5.1](/blog/2025/09/30/ending-support-for-android-5).

## New features

This version also introduces a few more features.

### Thumbnail size slider

Being able to customize your UI is one of Kreate priorities. With this update,
you will be able to change song's, album's, artist's, and playlist's thumbnail's size
as you like.

:::warning[limitation]
Due to several factors, there are hard limit on how small/big thumbnails can be.
:::

### New tab in artist page - Library

:::warning[experimental]
This feature just passed planning step. Its designed **will** be changed
in the future to accommodate user's need.
:::

In artist's page, you'll see a separate tab called `Library`. This tab
is currently set to display songs of this specific artists that you've seen,
and/or listened to.

However, the default behavior will be replaced with songs added to at least 1
playlist of the user's.

### DNS over HTTPS

To enhance your privacy, and (possibly) your security, we've added [DoH](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dns-over-tls/).
This feature features a set of predefined DoH service provider such as
[Cloudflare](https://developers.cloudflare.com/1.1.1.1/encryption/dns-over-https/), 
[Quad9](https://quad9.net/), 
and [Mullvad](https://mullvad.net/en/help/dns-over-https-and-dns-over-tls).

## Fixes

YTM did give us some hard time last month, but we managed.

### Long song failed to download

Before this version, any song longer than 5MB (~5 minutes of playtime) would
fail to download (and sometime stream).

It's fixed now. However, due to YT's restriction, songs will take somewhat longer
to download.

## Changes

### Address bar ellipsis

In the past, when viewing local songs, if the address was too long,
the final folder name would become multi-line. With new version,
individual folder will be shorten to fit to your screen's width.